# ADR002: Build Some Things

## Status

Accepted

## Context

The accessibility monitoring team require a means of:
* Picking websites to test (from a random list weighted by a variety of criteria, from complaints passed to us, from previously-tested sites (to test changes) and sites specifically chosen by guiding bodies)
* Collecting and maintaining a list of public sector websites from which to pick
* Triaging each site (check it is live, check for accessibility statement(s), measure its size in pages etc)
* Prioritising sites for testing
* Tracking the progress of testing on each website
* Creating a report for the completed test
* Sending the report to the site's owner
* Managing and recording interaction with the site's owner

Whilst there are a number of accessibility testing solutions available, they are all geared towards testing of one's own site, and require (or at least, assume) access to the source code and deployment system. Testing of multiple sites by a 3rd party from outside the sites' domains is not a common requirement for vendors!

Similarly, whilst the reports generated by some of the testing tools are very good, they are not up to GDS standards for content and, ironically, accessibility. Furthermore, GDS have no control over the content of the generated reports.

We therefore need a combination of database administration, semi-automatic accessibility testing and a Customer Relationship / Support Ticket Management system, all able to move data between them in a usable fashion.

## Decision

We will use 3rd-party tools where they provide part of the functionality that is required and can be made to communicate easily with each other.

We will write whatever code is necessary to form the "glue" that binds them together and to automate whatever can be (and is worth) automating.

## Consequences

This will be a partially-bespoke system. Even though it is intended for internal use only, it will need to be built in adherence to the [GDS Way](https://gds-way.cloudapps.digital/).

Changes to APIs with which we are integrating may render the system inoperable in future; there needs to be a channel by which such changes can be alerted, and a mechanism to modify the system to match any such changes.
